Proposal for Section 6 - Signed Statement Issuance, Registration, and… (#94)
ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture: draft-ietf-scitt-architecture.md

This section details the interoperability requirements for implementers of Signed Statements issuance and validation libraries, and of Transparency Services.

> ##  Issuing Signed Statements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Signed Statement Envelope
```

> ##  Issuing Signed Statements

Reviewer: @hannestschofenig : As the Main heading for the section is `Signed Statement Issuance, Registration, and Verification`

I think, it makes sense to introduce this section as `Signed Statement Envelope` The reason been (a) We are not discussing Issuance per say here

(b) We do not have a fixed signed statement format, but we just have an Envelope which contains a `Payload`

##  Issuing Signed Statements

The formats of Signed Statements and Receipts are based on CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE {{-COSE}}).

> The choice of CBOR {{-CBOR}} is a trade-off between safety (in particular, non-malleability: each Signed Statement has a unique serialization), ease of processing and availability of implementations.

Reviewer 2: I think missing closing parenthesis (')').

> Signed Statements are CBOR encoded {{-CBOR}} and protected by CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE {{-COSE}}). Additionally, it contains a minimum amount of headers and Statements as its payload.

Reviewer: Line 644 does not look right to me? Assuming that you want atleast one header and a statement as payload I will re-write the statement,

Author: Accepted your wording suggestion

> Signed Statements are CBOR encoded {{-CBOR}} and protected by CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE {{-COSE}}). Additionally, it contains a minimum amount of headers and Statements as its payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signed Statements are CBOR encoded {{-CBOR}} and protected by CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE {{-COSE}}). Additionally, it contains at least one or more headers and a set of statements as its payload.
```

All Signed Statements MUST include the following protected headers:

- algorithm (label: `1`): Asymmetric signature algorithm used by the Issuer of a Signed Statement, as an integer. For example, `-35` is the registered algorithm identifier for ECDSA with SHA-384, see [COSE Algorithms Registry](#IANA.cose).

> - Issuer (label: `TBD`, temporary: `391`): DID (Decentralized Identifier {{DID-CORE}}) of the signer, as a string. `did:web:example.com` is an example of a DID.

Reviewer 3: we should NOT do this... we should use https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-cose-cwt-claims-in-headers/

For now, I would recommend simply saying `kid` is mandatory and MUST be an absolute DID URL.

- Feed (label: `TBD`, temporary: `392`): The Issuer's name for the Artifact, as a string.

> - Payload type (label: `3`): Media type of payload, as a string. For example, `application/spdx+json` is the media type of SDPX in JSON encoding.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- content type (label: `3`): Media type of payload, as a string. For example, `application/spdx+json` is the media type of SDPX in JSON encoding.
```

Reviewer 3: Do we want to allow COAP? see also https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-cose-typ-header-parameter/

`typ` is for the envelope, not the payload type, but the same CBOR media type stuff applies

Reviewer 3: Tracking in https://github.com/ietf-wg-scitt/draft-ietf-scitt-architecture/issues/100

From the Issuer's perspective, using attributes from named policies ensures that the Signed Statement may only be registered on Transparency Services that implement the associated policy.
For instance, if a Signed Statement is frequently updated, and it is important for Verifiers to always consider the latest version, Issuers SHOULD use the `sequence_no` or `issuer_ts` attributes.

## Registering Signed Statements

The same Signed Statement may be independently registered by multiple Transparency Services.
To register a Signed Statement, the Transparency Service performs the following steps:

1. Issuer authentication
The Transparency Service MUST store evidence of the DID resolution for the Issuer protected header of the Envelope and the resolved key manifest at the time of Registration for auditing.
This MAY require that the service resolves the Issuer DID and record the resulting document, or rely on a cache of recent resolutions.

2. Signed Statement signature verification, as described in COSE signature, using the signature algorithm and verification key of the Issuer DID document.

> 3. Signature validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Signed Statement validation.
```

Author: Fixed this issue.
